Plotting Notebook Deep-dive Post (#43)
agude/agude.github.io: _drafts/2020-07-27-data_science_plotting_notebook_template.md

---
layout: post
title: "Jupyter Notebook Templates for Data Science: Plotting"
description: >

>   Jupyter notebooks are great for data exploration; jumpstart your

Reviewer: Feels like the first chunk of this only exists to get the Jupyter buzzword in there. Maybe

Jumpstart your visualizations with this Jupyter plotting notebook!

  visualizations with this plotting notebook!
image: /files/jupyter-library/jupiter_red_spot_juno.jpg
image_alt: >
  A photo of the Library of Congress in 1902.
categories: 
  - jupyter
  - my_projects
---

{% capture file_dir %}/files/jupyter-library/{% endcapture %}

{% include lead_image.html %}

> I recently released my [Jupyter Notebook Template Library][library]. Its goal

Reviewer: Not generally a fan of opening with "I" but I don't have an obvious re-word here

is to accelerate your data science projects without having to to spend hours
poking through old notebooks to find handy code snippets. In this post I dive
into the plotting notebook to show you what it can do.

[library]: https://github.com/agude/Jupyter-Notebook-Template-Library

[nb_post]: {% post_url 2016-10-17-jupyter_not_for_development %}

## The Plotting Notebook

> Visualizing your data is a critical step in understanding your data, and so it

Reviewer: Repeated "your data". Would say "Visualization is ..." or "a critical step in understanding it"

[![A plot showing the default grey bands.][bands_plot]][bands_plot]

[bands_plot]: {{ file_dir }}/bands.svg

But you can also customize the color using `draw_bands(ax, color="orange",
alpha=0.05)`, which produces:

[![A plot showing the orange bands.][orange_bands_plot]][orange_bands_plot]

[orange_bands_plot]: {{ file_dir }}/orange_bands.svg

These bands are a subtle way of indicating where on the X-axis a point lies,
which is especially useful when plotting a time series. I use them often. Here
are some examples:

- [**Discussing my sons' language development**][language_post] to highlight each month.
- [**Plotting the progression of the cycling hour record**][hour_post] to show each decade.  
- [**Exploring when cyclists are involved in traffic accidents**][bike_post] to highlight the seasonality.

[language_post]: {% post_url 2020-02-10-my_sons_language_development_comparison %}#development
[hour_post]: {% post_url 2019-07-09-hour_record_plot_improvements %}#improvements
[bike_post]: {% post_url 2019-02-20-switrs_bicycle_crashes_by_date %}#day-by-day

### Draw Legends

I like minimal, but informative, legends. Color alone is often enough to

> differentiate lines or points on simple plots, so I wrote a function to change

Reviewer: "on simple plots" is not needed

the color of the legend text to match the line, called
`draw_colored_legend()`. It produces a legend like on this plot:

[![A plot showing my colored legend.][legend_plot]][legend_plot]

[legend_plot]: {{ file_dir }}/legend.svg

This function is a little [brittle][brittle]; it works well for scatter plots,

> but fails for some other matplotlib objects. I plan to make it more robust in

Reviewer: Capitalize Matplotlib?

Reviewer: Also, do you have an open issue to clean this up, or a todo list in your readme, or something?

And will you remember to come clean up this promise after you make the code more robust?

Author: https://github.com/agude/Jupyter-Notebook-Template-Library/issues/3#issuecomment-663923874

the future.

[brittle]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_brittleness

> I have used these types of legends when:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This legend style can be seen in these posts:
```

- [**Plotting my son's language development**][son_post] to label each language.
- [**Plotting Tour de France Prize Money**][tdf_post] to label the winner's prize compared to the total.
- [**Comparing Data Science Salaries by Gender**][salary_post] to differentiate the points for men and women.

[son_post]: {% post_url 2020-01-30-my_second_sons_words %}#the-words
[tdf_post]: {% post_url 2019-11-25-tdf_prize_money_plot_improvements %}#improvements
[salary_post]: {% post_url 2019-05-09-data_science_salaries_by_gender %}#by-region

## Putting It Together

The [plotting notebook][plotting_nb] lets you make beautiful plots quickly and

> easily. It lets you make this plot:

Reviewer: The plotting notebook *allows you to* make...

Otherwise repeated "lets" is clunky

> The [plotting notebook][plotting_nb] lets you make beautiful plots quickly and
> easily. It lets you make this plot:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [plotting notebook][plotting_nb] enables you to make beautiful plots quickly and
easily. For example, this plot:
```

[![An example plot from the notebook library][example]][example]

[example]: {{ file_dir }}/example_plot.svg

> With only this code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Was produced by this short code snippet:
```
